Samples: Bluetooth: Mesh: LPN cfg for light_switch (#9036)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/mesh/light_switch/README.rst

While running the sample with the LPN configuration, the fourth :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_cli_readme` instance will be omitted.
Instead, the corresponding button will be used to temporarily enable the GATT proxy on the LPN device.

Running GATT proxy continuously consumes considerable power.
When run as the LPN, the application is therefore set to automatically disable the GATT proxy advertisement after a period of 30 seconds, given that the device is provisioned.
The user can manually re-enable the GATT proxy advertisement for a short period of time by pressing **Button 4** on the device, and thus connect over GATT to perform the necessary configuration.

After configuration is completed, and the GATT proxy connection is terminated, the GATT proxy advertisement will stop.

Friendship establishment will happen automatically after provisioning the LPN light switch, given that a :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light` sample is running and is provisioned into the same mesh network.

.. note::
   While running the sample as an LPN, logging over the serial interface will be disabled.

Power consumption measurements
------------------------------

> The following table shows a list of the supported boards for the LPN configuration, the average power consumption running as a standard node, and the average power consumption running as a LPN node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows a list of the supported boards for the LPN configuration, the average power consumption running as a standard (non-LPN) node, and the average power consumption running as an LPN node:
```

The response from the target device updates the corresponding LED on the mesh light switch device.
If the model is configured to publish to a group address, it calls :c:func:`bt_mesh_onoff_cli_set_unack` instead, to avoid getting responses from multiple devices at once.

Low Power node support
======================

The mesh light switch sample can also be run as a Low Power node (LPN), giving the possibility of lowering the power consumption.

While running the sample with the LPN configuration, the fourth :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_cli_readme` instance will be omitted.

> Instead, the corresponding button will be used to temporarily enable Node Id advertiment on the LPN device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, the corresponding button will be used to temporarily enable Node ID advertisement on the LPN device.
```

> Running continuous proxy advertiment with Network Id consumes considerable power, and is therefore disabled in the configuration.
> Instead, the user can manually enable the Node Id advertiment for a period of 30 seconds by pressing **Button 4** on the device. This will give the user a short period where it is possible to connect directly to the LPN, and thus perform necessary configuration of the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running continuous proxy advertisement with Network ID consumes considerable power, and is therefore disabled in the configuration.
Instead, the user can manually enable the Node ID advertisement for a period of 30 seconds by pressing **Button 4** on the device.
This will give the user a short period of time to connect directly to the LPN, and thus perform necessary configuration of the device.
```

> After the connection to the LPN is terminated, and the Node Id advertisement has stopped, the LPN will return to it's previous state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the connection to the LPN is terminated, and the Node ID advertisement has stopped, the LPN will return to it's previous state.
```

The response from the target device updates the corresponding LED on the mesh light switch device.
If the model is configured to publish to a group address, it calls :c:func:`bt_mesh_onoff_cli_set_unack` instead, to avoid getting responses from multiple devices at once.

Low Power node support
======================

The mesh light switch sample can also be run as a Low Power node (LPN), giving the possibility of lowering the power consumption.

While running the sample with the LPN configuration, the fourth :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_cli_readme` instance will be omitted.

> Instead, the corresponding button will be used to temporarily enable Node ID advertisement on the LPN device.

Reviewer 2: Less confusing:
```suggestion
Instead, button 4 will be used to temporarily enable Node ID advertisement on the LPN device.
```

Running continuous proxy advertisement with Network ID consumes considerable power, and is therefore disabled in the configuration.
Instead, the user can manually enable the Node ID advertisement for a period of 30 seconds by pressing **Button 4** on the device.
This will give the user a short period of time to connect directly to the LPN, and thus perform necessary configuration of the device.

> After the connection to the LPN is terminated, and the Node ID advertisement has stopped, the LPN will return to it's previous state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the connection to the LPN is terminated, and the Node ID advertisement has stopped, the LPN will return to its previous state.
```

   nrf52dk_nrf52832     7.14 mA                    13.69 µA
   nrf52840dk_nrf52840  6.71 mA                    14.63 µA
   nrf52833dk_nrf52833  6.10 mA                    14.43 µA
   ===================  ========================  ====================

The following applies to the LPN measurements presented in this table:

* They are taken after the provisioning and configuration have completed, and after the LPN has established a friendship to a neighboring node.

* The measurement period is approximately ten minutes, and without any light switch events (for example when idle).

* The current consumption is measured using the `Power Profiler Kit II (PPK2)`_.

* The measurements are done on the SoC only (meaning the measurements do not include power consumed by development kit LEDs for example).

.. image:: img/standard_52840ppk.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Power consumption for nRF52840 running as standard node

Power consumption for nRF52840 running as standard node (Captured in nRF Connect for Desktop: Power Profiler).

.. image:: img/lpn_52840ppk.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Power consumption for nRF52840 running as LPN

> Power consumption for nRF52840 running as LPN, showing consumed power over a single LPN polling period. The rightmost spike represents the LPN polling the friendship node. (Captured in nRF Connect for Desktop: Power Profiler).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Power consumption for nRF52840 running as LPN, showing consumed power over a single LPN polling period. The rightmost spike represents the LPN polling the friend node. (Captured in nRF Connect for Desktop: Power Profiler).
```

.. include:: /includes/sample_fem_support.txt

Low Power Node Support
======================

The mesh light switch sample can also be run as a Low Power Node (LPN). To make the light switch run as a LPN, build the sample using the following command:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -b <BOARD> -p -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="lpn.conf"

The :file:`lpn.conf` is a configuration overlay that will enable the LPN feature, as well as altering certain configuration options to further lower the power consumption. To review the specific alterations, please look at the :file:`lpn.conf`.

> While running the sample with the LPN configuration, the fourth Gen. OnOff Client instance will be omitted and the corresponding button will instead be used to temporarily enable GATT proxy on the LPN device. Running GATT proxy continuously will consume considerable power, and therefore the application is set to automatically disable GATT proxy advertisement after a period of 30 seconds, given that the device is provisioned. In this way the user will be able to manually re-enable GATT proxy for a short period by pressing button 4 on the device, and can then connect over GATT and perform necessary configuration. When the configuration is complete the user will then disconnect from the LPN and the GATT proxy advertisement will stop.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While running the sample with the LPN configuration, the fourth Gen. OnOff Client instance will be omitted and the corresponding button will instead be used to temporarily enable Mesh proxy service on the LPN device. Running the Mesh proxy service continuously will consume considerable power, and therefore the application is set to automatically disable proxy service advertisements after a period of 30 seconds, given that the device is provisioned. In this way the user will be able to manually re-enable proxy service for a short period by pressing button 4 on the device, and can then connect over GATT and perform necessary configuration. When the configuration is complete the user will then disconnect from the LPN and the proxy service advertisement will stop.
```

> While running the sample with the LPN configuration, the fourth Gen. OnOff Client instance will be omitted and the corresponding button will instead be used to temporarily enable GATT proxy on the LPN device. Running GATT proxy continuously will consume considerable power, and therefore the application is set to automatically disable GATT proxy advertisement after a period of 30 seconds, given that the device is provisioned. In this way the user will be able to manually re-enable GATT proxy for a short period by pressing button 4 on the device, and can then connect over GATT and perform necessary configuration. When the configuration is complete the user will then disconnect from the LPN and the GATT proxy advertisement will stop.

Reviewer 4: (nRF Mesh application) For iPhone users: disable Automatic Connection under Proxy. The user will then be able to use the Disconnect option. The user must change tabs before seeing that the proxy is unselected.

Author: I've added the note about disabling auto-connection. The note regarding changing tabs should perhaps be reported to the mobile apps team.

Friendship establishment will happen automatically after provisioning the LPN light switch, given that a :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light` sample is running and is provisioned into the same mesh network.

The following table shows a list of the supported boards for the LPN configuration, the average power consumption running as a standard node, and the average power consumption running as a LPN node:

.. table::
   :align: center

   ===================  =========================  ====================

>    Board                Avg. Consumption Standard  Avg. Consumption LPN

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Board                Avg. Consumption non-LPN Avg. Consumption LPN
```

   ===================  =========================  ====================
   nrf52dk_nrf52832     7.14 mA                    13.69 uA
   nrf52840dk_nrf52840  6.71 mA                    14.63 uA

>    nrf52833dk_nrf52833  6.10 mA                    14.43 uA

Reviewer 3: What is the sample rate used here? You will get an artificially high value of average current if the sample rate is too small. Ideally, the sample rate of PPK should be set to as high as possible for 1-minute window measurement.

Author: I belive I used the second highest rate to allow a longer sampling period. I tried the highest for a short while and got simmilar results.

   :ref:`zephyr:thingy53_nrf5340` supports only one RGB LED.
   Each RGB LED channel is used as separate LED.

The LPN assignments
===================

Button 4:

> 	When pressed, enables the Node Id advertiment for a short period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	When pressed, enables the Node ID advertisement for a short period of time.
```
